# Facial Expression Recognition: Happiness Level Prediction from Video

With the development of artificial intelligence for facial expression recognition, new topics have been proposed by researchers in order to achieve high-performance emotion recognition. Happiness level prediction from videos of facial expression is one novel idea that few researchers have studied. The idea requires an intelligent model that takes a piece of video of facial expression as the input and produces one happiness score as the output. It helps quantify the degree of happiness, which can be used in some real-life applications such as rating systems and intelligent robots. This project defines the happiness level from 0 to 10 continuously. It involves the acquisition of appropriate datasets, construction of deep learning models with self-designed neural networks, and the strategy of performance evaluation. During the lifecycle of the project, a refactored dataset relating each video to one happiness level was built on top of an existing dataset. Convolutional Neural Networks and Recurrent Neural Networks were used as primary components of the models. The evaluation of the result shows that a Mean Absolute Error of 1.6104 and a Root Mean Squared Error of 1.9777 were achieved for the testing dataset. The prediction also reached an “error <= 1 rate” of 41.72% and an “error <= 2 rate” of 66.90%. These metrics suggest that the implemented models have achieved moderate reliability. They serve as baselines for future research. However, limitations existed in manipulating the dataset and training the models, indicating that further enhancement is needed. For the next stage, some novel loss functions will be used for training. Different data manipulation strategies will also be applied. In addition, a more systematic evaluation strategy will be developed to measure the performance of the models.
